Mr Kerry added that if Mr Snowden, 30, "believes in America, he should trust the American system of justice".

BBC 报道，28日，美国国务卿约翰?克里称，国安局（NSA）前防务承包商雇员爱德华?斯诺登使美国蒙受巨大损失。他称斯诺登畏罪潜逃，应该“男人一点”，回到美国。“如果他相信美国，他也应该相信美国的司法制度”。

His comments come in the wake of an interview with NBC in which Mr Snowden said he sought asylum in Russia because the US revoked his passport.

克里发表评论之前，斯诺登在接受美国全国广播公司（NBC）的采访时曾说，由于美国吊销了他的护照，他才会在俄罗斯寻求政治庇护。

Mr Snowden also described himself as a trained spy, not a low-level analyst.

斯诺登还表示，他是一名经过训练的特工，并否认自己是一名低层分析员。

"A patriot would not run away, " Mr Kerry said on Wednesday. "If Mr Snowden wants to come back to the United States... we'll have him on a flight today."

克里说：“爱国者不会逃离自己的国家。如果斯诺登想回国……我们今天就可以让他坐上飞机。”克里还称斯诺登“不清楚自己在做什么”。

Mr Kerry also called the former National Security Agency contractor "confused", adding "this is a man who has done great damage to his country". Harvesting data

搜集数据

The secretary of state's comments come just hours before Mr Snowden's interview with NBC anchor Brian Williams is set to air.

在NBC主持人布赖恩?威廉姆斯(BrianWilliams)与斯诺登的访谈视频播出前几个小时，克里发表了评论。

Portions of the interview released earlier show Mr Snowden claim he was trained as a spy who worked undercover overseas for the CIA and NSA.

早些时候发布的部分采访内容显示，斯诺登称他接受过间谍训练，曾作为美国中央情报局（CIA）和国家安全局（NSA）便衣特工到海外工作。

But he described himself as a technical expert who did not recruit agents.

他还称自己是一个技术专家，并不负责招聘的工作。

"What I do is I put systems to work for the US, " he said. "And I've done that at all levels from the bottom on the ground all the way to the top. Now, the government might deny these things, they might frame it in certain ways and say, 'Oh well, you know, he's - he's a low-level analyst.'"

他说：“我所做的工作就是让美国计算机系统正常运转。我从基层岗位做到了最高层。目前美国政府可能会否认这些说法，用我曾经工作过的某个岗位来概括我所有工作经验。他们会说‘你知道吗？斯诺登是一个低级别的分析师’。”

When Mr Snowden fled the US in May 2013, he had been working as a technician for Booz Allen, a giant government contractor for the NSA.

斯诺登于2013年5月逃离美国时，还在国安局防务承包商博思艾伦资讯公司担任技术员的职位。

Last year, he fed a trove of secret NSA documents to news outlets including the Washington Post and the Guardian.

去年，他曾向包括美国《华盛顿邮报》和英国《卫报》在内的新闻机构泄露了众多美国国安局的机密文件。

Among other things, the leaks detailed the NSA's practice of harvesting data on millions of telephone calls made in the US and around the world, and revealed the agency had snooped on foreign leaders.

这些机密文件显示，美国国安局搜集美国和全球数以百万计的电话数据，并对外国领导人进行窃听。

The revelations have sparked a debate in the US over the appropriate role of the NSA and the extent to which it should be authorised to conduct such broad surveillance.

随后，美国就此事展开辩论。辩论内容从国安局恰当的职权范围扩展到实施如此大型的窃听是否需获准。

President Barack Obama has asked Congress to rein in the programme by barring the NSA from storing phone call data on its own and to require it to seek a court order to access telecom companies' records.

美国总统奥巴马已要求国会监管国安局的行为，包括禁止国安局自行储存电话通讯数据，并要求国安局须获得法庭许可，才能取得电讯公司的客户资料。

Last week, the US House passed such legislation, sending it to the US Senate.

上周，美国众议院通过类似立法，并已递交参议院审议。