1. Lying on Your Resume

简历造假

Tell the truth from the start, because you will be held responsible for the information you provide -- and your employer will check it.

现在一些人的简历，不是注水，就是非常注水。别以为做了假就万事大吉了。许多公司会进行背景调查。一旦露馅，你就有可能被请出去了。

If you are in the market for a new job, don't send your resume from your office computer, which most likely is monitored by IT. Assume your instant messages and emails are fair game as well.

跳槽时，很多小伙伴喜欢用公司电脑发应聘简历。注意，危险在逼近，因为公司IT部门可能会监控员工电邮和聊天工具，你的一举一动也许已尽收他们的眼底。

3. Gossiping

八卦

Walls have ears. Keep gossip to yourself. Winding up on the wrong side of the rumor mill can cost you more than somebody's trust; it can mean your job.

隔墙有耳。珍爱工作，远离八卦。听到八卦，即便兴奋高亢，但也要装听不见；看到别人普大喜奔地嚼舌根，即便你蠢蠢欲动随大流，也要高冷地视而不见。

Spending much of your work time orchestrating your own personal business usually results in being given an opportunity to spend all of your time on the phone on personal business -- looking for a new job, Star warns.

各位帅锅美女，办公室不是你家，要打电话回你家。不然，被开是迟早的事。

5. Drinking at Work

工作时喝酒

One of the quickest ways to be shown the door is drinking too much at lunch and walking into a wall. Maintaining your own clarity is extremely important.

想被扫地出门？很简单，试试天天中午喝酒！谁希望与整天不省人事的同事共事？

Spending much of your workday cruising around cyberspace puts you just a point-and-click away from unemployment. And checking adult-oriented Web sites on the job is a definite no-no.

谁上班时间不偷个小懒，上个小网？适可而止，各位，尤其别看成人小电影。否则不务正业很容易成为一个炒掉你的理由。

7. Becoming Romantically Involved with the Boss

与老板搞恋情

While it may make for great water-cooler discussion, a boss/direct-report romance can easily end with someone out of a job. (Hint: It's usually not the boss.)

这个话题很劲爆，不过跟老板或上司搞办公室恋情并非明智之举。弄不好，就会丢掉饭碗。但是，大多数情况下，你的老板或上司的位子会巍然不动，你懂的！

8. Forgetting to Double-Check Your Figures

没有仔细检查数字

When working with numbers, scrutinize your work carefully. One stray zero could make the difference between being employed and unemployed, advises Star.

如果你的工作与数字有关，记得且算且检查。漏掉一个0可能就会让你失业。

9. Alienating Your Coworkers

疏远同事

To do your job effectively, you'll need the cooperation, support and good will of those around you. Becoming detached from those you work with could get you replaced with someone who can work well with others.

同事关系搞不好，工作不好搞。记住，你不是超人或美国队长，你需要协作，而不是玉树临风，一枝独秀。

10. Pointing the Finger at Everyone but Yourself

不要老是推卸责任

Take ownership of your job. If you make a mistake, own up to it. Don't try to sweep your mistakes under the carpet -- or worse yet, blame somebody else -- because the truth will usually come back to bite you on the bottom line. And nobody wants to trust or employ a liar, says Star.

做错了，就认错，不要乱推责任。因为，没有人喜欢满嘴谎言的人。