2014 sees the World Cup returning to South America for the first time since 1978, when a Mario Kempes inspired Argentina saw off the Netherlands, keeping up the record that only South American teams have ever won the tournament when it's been held there. So will 2014 be any different ? Will any of the big European nations, including the holders Spain, be able to do what no other team has managed in the past ? Or does any other continent have the strength to see off the challenge from a strong South American group ?

2014年，世界杯在1978年以后又重新回到南美的怀抱，当时，马里奥·肯佩斯（Mario Kempes）带领阿根廷队战胜了荷兰队，保持着南美球队在南美洲大陆上举行的世界杯中赢得冠军的记录。那么，2014年会有所不同吗？包括卫冕冠军西班牙队在内的欧洲诸强能够实现那些在过去的比赛中的欧洲球队未能做到的吗？抑或，有其他任何大陆能够有实力挑战强大的南美球队吗？

We'll start our review with the South American nations, and who else could we begin with, but the hosts Brazil. Rewind 18 months and they looked like they'd be struggling, but the appointment of 'Big Phil' Scolari has been inspired, and he's brought a belief to the team that was previously missing. Last years 3:0 demolition of Spain in the Confederations Cup final shocked many experts, and all of a sudden the Brazilians have expectations on them. Whilst you can't argue with that scoreline, we still wonder if Brazil have the firepower to win such a long tournament. Neymar is expected to conjure up the magic, but they're relying on Fred to come up with the goals. No disrepect to Fred, but the last two Brazilian teams to win the World Cup, in 2002 and 1994, could count on the likes of Ronaldo and Romario to lead the front line, two genuine legends of the game.

首先，我们来回顾一下这些南美国家吧。东道主巴西队肯定是第一个要提到的。时间倒流18个月，巴西在这段时间一直在努力，但是对人称“大菲尔”（Big Phil）的斯科拉里（Scolari）的任命起到了作用。他让球队重新拾回失去的信念。在2013年联合会杯决赛中，3:0大胜西班牙的战果让诸多专业人士震惊，也在突然之间，巴西让人们对他们寄予了厚望。虽然你无法驳斥这样的比分，但是我们依旧想知道巴西是否有实力赢得此次世界杯。人们预计，内马尔（Neymar）也将放出“魔法”大招，但是他们还是想依靠弗雷德来进球。这不是对弗雷德无礼，不过，在1994以及2002年，巴西之所以能够赢得世界杯还是依靠于罗纳尔多和罗马里奥领衔前线的成功，而这两位也被誉为世界杯的传奇人物。

Argentina, the host nation's big rivals, are in with a great chance too. Any team featuring Lionel Messi is going to be in with a shout, but when you add to that the likes of Sergio Aguero, Gonzalo Higuain and Ezequiel Lavezzi, then it's a team with one of the best sets of attacking options in the tournament. Likewise, Uruguay's attacking trio of Luis Suarez, Edinson Cavani and Diegoi Forlan is about as potent as it can get, and is capable of scoring goals against any team in the world, although whethere the rest of their team is strong enough is open to debate.

东道主的对手阿根廷队在此次世界杯中也有很大的机会。一支以梅西为主的队伍都会在最后大放异彩，但是当你在队伍中增添类似塞尔吉奥·阿奎罗（Sergio Aguero）、冈萨罗·伊瓜因（Gonzalo Higuan）和埃泽奎尔·拉维奇（Ezequiel Lavezzi）这样的队员的话，那么它将是这届世界杯上最具有进攻打法的球队了。同理，乌拉圭的进攻三人组——路易斯·苏亚雷斯（Luis Suarez）、埃丁森·卡瓦尼（Edinson Cavani）以及迪亚戈·弗兰(Diegol Forlan)同样拥有同等的实力，能对世界上任何一支球队比赛时进球，不过，他们所在队伍中其他人的实力是否足够强还让人存疑。

Chile were one of the most exciting teams at the 2010 World Cup and recentky gave England the run around at Wembley, whilst if Colombia can get Radamel Falcao fit then they could cause an upset or two. So of all the South American teams, only Ecuador look like they might struggle to get out of the group stages, with all the others more than capable of reaching the latter stages.

在2010年世界杯中，智利当属最振奋人心的一支队伍，并在最近的温布利比赛中让英格兰队在赛场上四处兜转，不过，如果哥伦比亚队能够融合射手拉达梅尔·法尔考（Radamel Falcao），那么这支队可能会让一两支队伍神伤了。因此，在所有的南美洲球队中，似乎只有厄瓜多尔难以走出小组赛，而其余的所有国家都有能力奋战到后面的阶段。

So with such a strong South American contingent, where will the main challenge come from ? Well, the big guns from Europe is the obvious answer. And where else could you look for a team of Champions than Spain. Having won the last World Cup, sandwiched between two European Championship triumphs, this is a team that not only knows how to play fantastic football, but that knows how to win. So whilst Messi and Ronaldo get all the annual plaudits and player of the year titles, the likes of Xavi and Iniesta go about winning all the major trophies. So will they be as string this year ? Well, worryingly for the rest of the world, yes. Not only are most of the old guard still there but talented youngsters such as Koke and Thiago Alcantara have joined the ranks. Not only that, but they've managed to grab a prolific striker, Diego Costa, from under the noses of the host nation, with the Atletico Madrid forward opting to play for Spain, rather than the nation of his birth.

因此，有如此强大的南美洲队伍坐镇，主要的挑战力量将来自何方呢？嗯，来自欧洲的强势力量恐怕便是最显而易见的答案了，你还能去哪里寻找一个比西班牙更有冠军相的球队呢？作为一支卫冕冠军，并坐拥两届欧锦赛的冠军头号，这是一支不仅知道如何出色发挥，同时知晓如何赢得比赛的队伍。因此，虽然梅西和罗纳尔多曾获得所有年度最佳球员的头衔，但是哈维（Xavi）和伊涅斯塔(Iniesta)却将所有主要冠军据为己有。那么，他们在2014年将延续冠军生涯么？对于这个困扰世界上其他国家的问题，答案是肯定的。不仅大多数老将依然坚守岗位，许多包括科克（Koke ）和蒂亚戈·阿尔坎塔拉(Thiago Alcantara)等有才华的年轻球员也加入了。不仅仅如此，他们还从东道主的眼皮下挖走了一个才华横溢的射手蒂亚戈·科斯塔（Diego Costa）收入囊中，因为这位马德里竞技（Atletico Madrid）的前锋选择为西班牙效力，而非自己出生国家踢球。

Of the other teams, Germany have a fantastic team, with some great options all over the pitch. The Italians can never be discounted at tournaments, whilst Portugal, with Ronaldo in the team will be dangerous, and Belgium, with such an array of talent will be amongst everyone's list of dark horses.

对于其他队伍而言，在球场上拥有良好判断力的德国也是一直非常出色的队伍。意大利也是世界杯上无法忽视的队伍，而拥有罗纳尔多的葡萄牙队将会是一直极具危险性的队伍。拥有众多的大将的比利时队也将成为人们口中津津乐道的黑马队伍。

And England ? Well, maybe the best thing to say is that this time, for once, no-one is really expecting anything, and just even getting out of the group is going to be a bonus.

至于英格兰嘛？或许最好的事情应该便是在此次比赛中无人会期待有任何事情的发生，而对于英格兰而言，不从小组赛中淘汰掉便是一个褒奖了吧。